There are several ways to bulk
load data into CrateDB.
In this video I will walk you
through the different options
and will look at a few ways to
create records with the INSERT
statement.
We will also briefly consider
the options available for bulk
data export from CrateDB.
CrateDB accepts bulk data
imports from a variety of
sources.
You can use a local file, import
data from a URL, or connect to
the popular Amazon S3 or Azure
Storage Container Services.
Let's explore these, beginning
with the CrateDB Cloud
interface, then with the COPY
FROM SQL statement.
Finally, we'll learn how to
populate a table in CrateDB by
selectively copying data from an
existing table.
Before importing data, we first
need to create a table.
This SQL statement creates a
table told details of Chicago's
taxi fleet, and this file
contains the fleet data in CSV
format.
Moving to the Import tab, we can
see our import options.
We're going to import from a
file, but let's first look at
some of the other options
available to us.
We can choose a URL or an S3
bucket, or we can import from
Azure.
In the case of Azure and S3, we
can provide the appropriate
secrets as necessary.
Returning to the File tab, I'm
going to drag and drop the file
onto this area and you'll see
that CrateDB's interface has
inferred the file type.
We can select other supported
file types, and we can also
choose whether or not the file
is Gzip compressed.
Next, we need to provide a table
name to import the data into.
In our case it's taxis.
We're all ready to go.
So we'll click the import button
here and the import job has started.
Now we can see it
succeeded.
Let's move to the console and
change this query for one that
selects a few records in the
table to demonstrate that they
were in fact created.
So SELECT * FROM taxis LIMIT
10.
When we execute this, we can see
that we got the first 10 taxis
back and the data was in fact
imported.
The COPY FROM statement is
another way to import data into
CrateDB.
This method supports the file
types and locations that we saw
when importing a file
previously.
Let's use copy from to populate
our Chicago 311 calls table
using a Gzip JSON file.
It's a GitHub URL as the data
source.
First, I need to create the 311
calls table with this statement here.
Then, run COPY FROM.
What we see here is that
I'm copying from a GitHub URL
and specifying that the
compression is Gzip.
I'm asking CrateDB to return a
summary of the results, so let's
execute that. And here we see the
results summary.
We've successfully imported
174,000 and 92 records.
Let's look at these by running a
simple SELECT query.
SELECT * FROM three_eleven_calls
LIMIT 10.
Let's run that query, and you'll
see that we have the data in the
table.
Tables in CrateDB can be
populated with data from other
tables.
Let's use our taxis table as the
data source to create a new
table containing a subset of the
taxi data.
First, I'll create a second table
with the same schema as the
taxis table.
Now, let's populate that by
selecting only the records from
the taxis table where the
vehicle make is Toyota and the
model is Camry.
This query populated the new
table with 1098 records, and we
can see that they're all Toyota
Camrys with a simple SELECT
query.
As expected, we have 1098 rows,
each of which contains data for
a Toyota Camry taxi.
New rows can of course be
inserted into tables with the
INSERT statement.
I'll show you three different
methods.
First, there's a simple INSERT
for a single row.
We're adding a new taxi to the
Taxis table.
Here's an INSERT statement that
uses the UNNEST function to
insert multiple rows at once.
UNNEST produces rows from
arrays.
This statement inserts rows for
a black 2024 Ford Explorer and a
yellow 2022 Toyota Sienna.
Let's run it now, and then let's
select the resulting rows.
So SELECT * FROM taxis WHERE
vehicleid is greater than 7000.
And we can see here that we've
inserted those two rows.
This method offers dramatic
performance improvements over
the corresponding number of
individual inserts, and the
query only needs to be passed
and planned once and requires
less network traffic.
Finally, multiple rows can also
be inserted with multiple value
expressions like so. This method
is generally slower than using
UNNEST, as parsing the SQL is
more expensive.
However, this query is more
readable than the UNNEST
equivalent.
Sometimes you'll want to export
data from CrateDB back to a file.
Using the export option in
CrateDB Cloud, I'll export the
Toyota Camry taxi table that we
created earlier.
We input the table name here,
and let's choose JSON from the
available formats here.
There's no need to compress the
file, as there aren't too many
records in this table.
Pressing export starts the job
in the cloud.
Once the export has finished, we
can download the file from the
cloud.
Here's our data in JSON lines
format.
If you're running CrateDB
locally, including with Docker,
you should check out the
documentation for the COPY TO
command.
This allows you to export data
from a locally running CrateDB
cluster to files on your file
system.
In this video, we covered the
various ways of importing data
into CrateDB.
We also touched on the different
ways that records can be added
to tables with the INSERT
statement.
And we finished by learning how
to export data from CrateDB.